Countryloaf Recipe

Description

A delicious take on the classic take on the french countryloaf sourdough recipe. A simple mix of flour, water, sourdough and voilà!
Ingredients

    800g of Bread Flour
    460g of water ( just below room temp.)
    ~12g of salt
    325g of Sourdough Starter

Steps

    Mix your dry ingredients together with a whisk, until nicely blended.
    Mix the blended dry ingredients with your Sourdough, until a crumbly consistency.
    Let the mixture sit fo ~10-15 mins, as to form some gluten structure to mix better later on
    Add the water and kneed until it passes the window-pane test (depending on your flour, add less of the water)
    Let the final dough sit for 4-5 hours until doubled in size
    Cover your workspace with a thin layer of flour to place the dough
    Cut the dough into 2 pieces (or 3 for smaller loafs)
    Shape the pieces into loafs
    Place shaped pieces into nicely floured bread-bannetons or appropriately sized tupperware
    Cover the loafs in a bad and place in the fridge for ~8-12 hours
    Before next steps, preheat oven to 480-490C
    Take loafs out of fridge place into a dutch oven, cut bread on the top side or center with a leif (razor will do just fine)
    Place bread into for 40mins, make sure to place a tin of water to humidify the oven for abetter oven-spring
    Remove the lid of the dutch-oven for 2-3 mins for browning and blistering
    Take out loafs and let them rest for an hour
    Enjoy :)

-----------

Sourdough Starter Recipe

Description

You wanna start a Sourdough Starter of your own, eh? Well look no further. I've got you.
Ingredients

    ~1500g of Wholewheat/Multigrain Flour (i advice against using all-purpose flour, though it should work)
    Water

Steps

    Make sure to follow these steps around the same time of day
    First Day: In a small bowl, place 50g of flour and 50g of water. Mix until combined, cover it and leave it overnight at room temperature.
    Second Day: Add 50g of flour and 50 of water, mix it, cover it and leave it overnight at room temperature.
    Third Day: Throw out 100g of Starter. Mix in 100g of equal parts water and flour into leftover. Mix it, cover it and leave it overnight at room temperature.
    Fourth Day: Throw out 150g of Starter. Mix in 150g of equal parts water and flour into leftover. Mix it, cover it and leave it overnight at room temperature. Starter should start to smell. May contain small bubbles
    Fifth Day: Throw out 200g of Starter. Mix in 200g of equal parts water and flour into leftover. Mix it, cover it and leave it overnight at room temperature. Starter should be more active and contain bubbles.
    Sixth Day: Throw out 250g of Starter. Mix in 250g of equal parts water and flour into leftover. Mix it, cover it and leave it overnight at room temperature.
    Seventh Day: Congrats! You did it, you actually stuck to it. You should have a working Sourdough Starter ready for use! Like NOW!
    Either feed the starter everyday, half its bodyweight in equal parts water and flour. Or feed it once a week by keeping if in the fridge. Or once a month by freezing it. Or every 6 months by drying it out completely.

---------

Rye Loaf Recipe

Description

You've heard about the fabled Rye flour, have you? Working with it...'tis dark magic, I tell you! But if you're up for the task, I'll fill you in on my secrets. May its dark, dense and delightful flavours fill your belly!
Ingredients

    500g of Rye Flour
    ~360g of Water (depending on the quality of flour, less water may be needed)
    ~10-13g of salt
    360g of Sourdough Starter (preferably sourdough fed rye/wholewheat flour)
    Patience and perseverance.

Steps

    Mix your dry ingredients together with a whisk, until nicely blended.
    Mix the blended dry ingredients with your Sourdough, until a crumbly consistency.
    Let the mixture sit fo ~20-30 mins to proof, as to form some gluten structure to mix better later on
    Add the water and kneed until you get very heavy and thick paste (depending on your flour, add less of the water), Rye dough does not feel like regular dough due to its low gluten content
    Shape into a ball, place it in a bowl , lightly oil it with olive oil, cover it with cling wrap, and let it rest for 2.5 hours at room temperature.
    Take out dough into a floured surface, and knock back the air, expect it to crack as you reshape it into ball.
    Place the shaped dough into a floured bread-banneton or tupperware. Let it sit for ~2 hours
    Before next steps, preheat oven to 480-490C
    Take loaf out of fridge place into a dutch oven, no need to cut into dough, the rye dough will naturally form cracks
    Place bread into for 40-50mins, make sure to place a tin of water to humidify the oven for abetter oven-spring
    Remove the lid of the dutch-oven for 2-3 mins for browning and blistering
    Take out loaf and let it rest ~10 hours to a day before cutting. This is an important step, as Rye tends to be bit gummier.
    If you've patiently waited, you are now able to enjoy the fruit of thy labor.


